

This a model from the article:  
**Mechanisms of transition from normal to reentrant electrical activity in a model of rabbit atrial tissue: interaction of tissue heterogeneity and anisotropy.**   
Aslanidi OV, Boyett MR, Dobrzynski H, Li J, Zhang H. _Biophys J_ 2009
Feb;96(3):798-817 [19186122](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19186122) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Experimental evidence suggests that regional differences in action potential
(AP) morphology can provide a substrate for initiation and maintenance of
reentrant arrhythmias in the right atrium (RA), but the relationships between
the complex electrophysiological and anatomical organization of the RA and the
genesis of reentry are unclear. In this study, a biophysically detailed three-
dimensional computer model of the right atrial tissue was constructed to study
the role of tissue heterogeneity and anisotropy in arrhythmogenesis. The model
of Lindblad et al. for a rabbit atrial cell was modified to incorporate
experimental data on regional differences in several ionic currents
(primarily, I(Na), I(CaL), I(K1), I(to), and I(sus)) between the crista
terminalis and pectinate muscle cells. The modified model was validated by its
ability to reproduce the AP properties measured experimentally. The anatomical
model of the rabbit RA (including tissue geometry and fiber orientation) was
based on a recent histological reconstruction. Simulations with the resultant
electrophysiologically and anatomically detailed three-dimensional model show
that complex organization of the RA tissue causes breakdown of regular AP
conduction patterns at high pacing rates (>11.75 Hz): as the AP in the crista
terminalis cells is longer, and electrotonic coupling transverse to fibers of
the crista terminalis is weak, high-frequency pacing at the border between the
crista terminalis and pectinate muscles results in a unidirectional conduction
block toward the crista terminalis and generation of reentry. Contributions of
the tissue heterogeneity and anisotropy to reentry initiation mechanisms are
quantified by measuring action potential duration (APD) gradients at the
border between the crista terminalis and pectinate muscles: the APD gradients
are high in areas where both heterogeneity and anisotropy are high, such that
intrinsic APD differences are not diminished by electrotonic interactions.
Thus, our detailed computer model reconstructs complex electrical activity in
the RA, and provides new insights into the mechanisms of transition from focal
atrial tachycardia into reentry.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Aslanidi OV, Boyett MR, Dobrzynski H, Li J, Zhang
H. (2009) - version=1.0**
](http://www.cellml.org/models/Aslanidi_Boyett_Dobrzynski_Li_Zhang_2009)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Penny Noble**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
The University of Oxford  

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

